---
layout: martyrs
title: January 28
day: 28
month: January
---
AT Rome, the second feast of St. Agnes.&mdash;In the same place, St. Flavian, martyr, who suffered under Diocletian.&mdash;At Apollonia, the holy martyrs Thyrsus, Leucius, and Callinicus, who were made to undergo various torments in the time of the emperor Decius. Thyrsus and Callinicus consummated their martyrdom by being beheaded; Leucius, being called by a heavenly voice, yielded his soul to God.&mdash; In Thebais, the holy martyrs Leonides and his companions, who obtained the palm of martyrdom in the time of Diocletian:&mdash;At Alexandria, the commemoration of many holy martyrs, who, whilst they were at Mass in the church on this day, were put to death in various manners by the followers of Syrian, an Arian general.&mdash;Also, St. Cyril, bishop of the same city, a most celebrated defender of the Catholic faith, who rested in peace with a great reputation for learning and sanctity.&mdash;At Saragossa, St. Valerius, bishop.&mdash;At Cuenca, in Spain, the birthday of St. Julian, bishop, who went to his God with the reputation of working miracles, after bestowing the goods of the Church on the poor, and, like the Apostles, supporting himself by the work of his hands.&mdash;In the monastery of Rheims, the demise of a holy priest named John, a man of God.&mdash;In Palestine, St. James, a hermit, who hid himself a long time in a sepulchre to do penance for a fault he had committed, and being celebrated for miracles, departed for heaven.   
