---
layout: martyrs
title: March 06
day: 06
month: March
---
THE feast of the holy martyrs Perpetua and
Felicitas, who received the glorious crown of martyrdom on the 7th of this month.&mdash;At Nicomedia,
the birthday of the holy martyrs Victor and Victorinus, who were, with Claudian and his wife Bassa,
subjected to many torments during three years and
were then thrust into prison, where they ended the
pilgrimage of life.&mdash;A.t Tortona, St. Marcian, bishop
and martyr, who received the crown of immortality
by being killed under Trajan for the glory of Christ.
&mdash;At Constantinople, St. Evagrius, who was elected
bishop by the Catholics in the reign of Valens, and
being exiled by that emperor, departed for heaven.&mdash;In Cyprus, in the time of the emperor Decius, St.
Conon, martyr, who, being compelled to run before
a chariot with his feet pierced with nails, fell on
his knees, and breathing a prayer expired.&mdash;Also,
the passion of forty-two holy martyrs, who were
arrested in Amorium, and taken to Syria, where they
received the palm of martyrdom. after a valiant
combat.&mdash;At Bologna, St. Basil, bishop, who was
consecrated by pope St. Sylvester, and by word and
example governed with great holiness the church
entrusted to his care.&mdash;At Barcelona, in Spain,
blessed Ollegarius, who was first a canon, and afterwards bishop of Barcelona and archbishop of Tarragona.&mdash;At Ghent, in Flanders, St. Colette, virgin,
who at first professed the rule of the Third Order
of St. Francis, and afterwards, by the inspiration
of the Holy Spirit, restored the primitive discipline
in a great number of monasteries of Nuns of the
Second Order. As she was adorned with heavenly
virtues, and performed innumerable miracles, she
was inscribed on the list of the Saints by the Sovereign Pontiff, Pius VII.


