---
layout: martyrs
title: March 08
day: 08
month: March
---
AT Granada, in Spain, St. John of God, founder
of the Order of the Brothers Hospitallers, celebrated for his mercy to the poor, and his contempt
of self. Pope Leo XIII. declared him heavenly
patron of hospitals and the infirm.&mdash;At Antinous, a
city of Egypt, the birthday of the holy martyr Philemon, and the deacon Apollonius. As they firmly
refused to sacrifice to the idols when they were apprehended and brought before the judge, they had
their heels transpierced, were barbarously dragged
through the city, and finally consummated their
martyrdom by the edge of the sword.&mdash;Also, in the
same place, the passion of the Saints Arian, governor, Theoticus and three others, who were submerged in the sea by order of the judge. Their
bodies were brought to the shore by dolphins.&mdash;At
Nicomedia, St. Quinctilis, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At
Carthage, St. Pontius, deacon of bishop St. Cyprian, .
who remained in banishment with him until his
death, and composed an excellent history of his life
and martyrdom. By ever glorifying God in his own
sufferings, he merited the crown of life.&mdash;Also in
Africa, the Saints Cyril, bishop, Rogatus, Felix,
another Rogatus, Beata, Herenia, Felicitas, Urbanus,
Sylvanus, and Mamillus.&mdash;At Toledo, in Spain, the
demise of blessed Julian, bishop a.nd confessor, most
celebrated for his sanctity and learning.&mdash;In England, St. Felix, bishop, who converted the East-Angles to the faith.


