---
layout: martyrs
title: March 18
day: 18
month: March
---
AT Jerusalem, St. Cyril, bishop and doctor, who
suffered many injuries from the Arians for the
faith. Often exiled from his church, he at length
rested in peace with a great reputation for sanctity.
A magnificent testimony of the purity of his faith is
given by a general Council, in a letter to pope Damasus.&mdash;At Caesarea, in Palestine, the birthday of the
blessed bishop Alexander, who from his own city,
in Cappadocia, where he was bishop, coming to Jerusalem to visit the holy places, took upon himself, by
divine revelation, the government of that Church, in
the place of the aged Narcissus, its bishop. Some
time afterwards, when he had become venerable by
his age and grey hairs, he was led to Caasarea and
shut up in prison, where he ended his martyrdom
for the confession of Christ during the persecution
of Decius.&mdash;At Augsburg, St. Narcissus, bishop, who
was the first to preach the Gospel in the Tyrol.
Afterwards, setting out for Spain, he converted many
to the faith of Christ at Gerona, where, with the
deacon Felix, he received the. palm of martyrdom
during the persecution of Diocletian.&mdash;At Nicomedia, ten thousand holy martyrs, who were put to the
sword for the confession of Christ.&mdash;Also, the holy
martyrs Trophimus and Eucarpius.&mdash;In England,
the holy king Edward, who was assassinated by
order of his treacherous stepmother, and became
celebrated for many miracles.&mdash;At Lucca, in Tuscany, the birthday of the holy bishop Frigdian, who
was illustrious by the power of working miracles.
His feast is more especially celebrated on the 18th
of November, when his body was translated.&mdash;At
Mantua, St. Anselm, bishop and confessor.

