---
layout: martyrs
title: March 22
day: 22
month: March
---
AT Narbonne, in France, the birthday of the bishop
St. Paul, a disciple of the Apostles. He is said
to have been the proconsul Sergius Paulus, who was
baptized by the blessed apostle Paul, and left at
Narbonne, where he was raised to the episcopal
dignity when the apostle went to Spain. Having
zealously discharged the office of preaching and performed miracles, he departed for heaven.&mdash;At Terracina, St. Epaphroditus, a disciple of the Apostles,
who was consecrated bishop of that city by the
blessed apostle Peter.&mdash;In Africa, the holy martyrs
Saturninus and nine others.&mdash;The same day, the
birthday of the Saints Callinica and Basilissa, martyrs.&mdash;An Ancyra, under Julian the Apostate, St.
Basil, priest and martyr, who gave up his soul to God
after having endured grievous torments.&mdash;At Carthage, St. Octavian, archdeacon, and many thousands
of martyrs, who were slain by the Vandals for the
Catholic faith.&mdash;In the same place, St. Deogratias,
bishop of Carthage, who ransomed many captives
taken. from that city by the Vandals, and performed
other good works, after which he went to rest in the
Lord.&mdash;At Osimo, in the March of Ancona, St. Benvenutus, bishop.&mdash;In Sweden, St. Catharine, virgin,
daughter of St. Bridget.&mdash;At Rome, St. Lea, a
widow, whose virtues and happy death are related
by St. Jerome.&mdash;At Genoa, St. Catharine, a widow,
celebrated for her contempt of the world and her
love of God.


