---
layout: martyrs
title: April 24
day: 24
month: April
---
AT Sevis, in Switzerland, St. Fidelis of Sigmaringen, of the Order of Capuchin Minorites, who was
sent thither to preach the Catholic faith. He was
put to death by the heretics, and was placed among
the holy martyrs by the Sovereign Pontiif, Benedict
XIV.&mdash;At Rome, St. Sabas, a military officer, who
bravely confessed Christ before the judge when he
was accused of visiting the Christians in prison.
For this he was burned with torches and thrown
into a caldron of boiling pitch, out of which he came
uninjured. Seventy men were converted to Christ
at the sight of this miracle, and as they all remained
unshaken in the confession of the faith, they were
put to the sword. Sabas, however, terminated his
martyrdom by being cast into the river.&mdash;At Lyons,
in France, during the persecution of Verus, the
birthday of St. Alexander, martyr. After being imprisoned, he was so lacerated by the cruelty of those
who scourged him, that his ribs and the interior of
his body were exposed to view. Then he was fastened to the gibbet of the cross, on which he yielded
up his blessed soul. Thirty-four others who suffered with him are commemorated on other days.&mdash;The same day, during the persecution of Diocletian,
the holy martyrs Eusebius, Neon, Leontius, Longinus, and four others, were slain with the sword
after enduring great torments.&mdash;In England, the
demise of St. Mellitus, bishop. Being sent thither
by St. Gregory, he converted to the faith the EastSaxons and their king.&mdash;At Elvira, in Spain, St.
Gregory, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Brescia, St.
Honorius, bishop.&mdash;In Ireland, St. Egbert, priest
and monk, a man of admirable humility and continency.&mdash;At Rheims, the holy virgins Bona and Doda.


