---
layout: martyrs
title: April 28
day: 28
month: April
---
ST. PAUL of the Cross, a man remarkable for innocence of life and for the spirit of penance, and
Founder of the Congregation of the Cross and Passion of our Lord Jesus Christ. Consumed with a
burning love for Christ crucified, illustrious by his
heavenly gifts and the working of miracles, and
blessed with a perfect and finished virtue, he went
to his repose in the Lord.&mdash;At Ravenna, the birthday of St. Vitalis, martyr, father of the saints Gervasius and Protasius. When he had taken up and
reverently buried the body of blessed Ursicinus, he
was arrested by the ex-consul Paulinus, and after being racked, and thrown into a deep pit, was overwhelmed with earth and stones, and by this kind of
martyrdom went to Christ.&mdash;At Milan, the martyr St.
Valeria, who was the wife of St. Vitalis.&mdash;At Atino,
St. Mark, who being made biship by the blessed apos
tle Peter, wa the first to preach the Gospel to the inhabitants of that region, and received the crown of
martyrdom in the persecution of Domitian, under
the governor Maximus.&mdash;At Alexandria, the martyrdom of the virgin St. Theodora. For refusing to
sacrifice to idols, she was led to a place of debauch;
but, a Christian, named Didymus, through the admirable providence of God, delivered her by quickly
exchanging garments with her. He was afterwards
decapitated, and crowned with her in the persecution
of Diocletian, under the governor Eustratius.&mdash;The
same day, the saints Aphrodisius, Caralippus,
Agapius, and Eusebius, martyrs.&mdash;In Pannonia, St.
Pollio, martyr, under the emperor Diocletian.&mdash;At
Prusa, in Bithynia, the holy martyrs Patritius,
bishop, Acatius, Menander, and Polyenus.&mdash;At Tarrazona, in Spain, St. Prudentius, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At Pelino, in Abruzzo, St. Pamphilus, bishop
of Valva, illustrious by his charity towards the poor,
and the gift of miracles. His body was buried at
Solmona.


