---
layout: martyrs
title: May 07
day: 07
month: May
---
AT Cracow, in Poland, the birthday of St. Stanislaus, bishop and martyr, who was murdered by
the wicked king Boleslas.&mdash;At Terracina, in Campania, the birthday of blessed Flavia Domitilla, virgin and martyr, niece of the Consul Flavius Clemens.
She received the religious veil at the hands of St.
Clement, and in the persecution of Domitian was
exiled with many others to the island of Pontia,
where she endured a long martyrdom for Christ.
Taken afterwards to Terracina, she converted many
to the faith of Christ by her teaching and miracles.
The judge ordered the chamber in which she was
with the virgins Euphrosina and Theodora, to be set
on fire, and she thus consummated her glorious martyrdom. She is also mentioned with the holy martyrs Nereus ad Achilleus, on the 12th of this month.
&mdash;The same day, St. Juvenal, martyr.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the holy martyrs Flavius, Augustus,
and Augustine, brothers.&mdash;In the same city, St.
Quadratus, martyr, who was frequently tortured in
the persecution of Decius, and at last decapitated.&mdash;At Rome, St. Benedict, pope and confessor.&mdash;At
York, in England, St. John, bishop renowned for
his saintly life and miracles.&mdash;At Pavia, the bishop
St. Peter.&mdash;At Rome, the translation of the body of
St. Stephen, the first martyr, which was brought
from Constantinople to Rome, and laid in the sepulchre of the martyr St. Lawrence in the field of Verano, where it is honored with great devotion by the
pious faithful.

