---
layout: martyrs
title: May 19
day: 19
month: May
---
THE birthday of St. Peter of Moroni, who, while
leading the life of an anchoret, was created Sovereign Pontiff and called Celestin V. Having abdicated the pontificate, he led a religious life in solitude, where, renowned for virtues and miracles, he
went to God.&mdash;At Rome, the saintly virgin Pudentiana, who, after numberless tribulations, after burying with great respect many martyrs, and distributing all her goods to the poor for Christ’s sake, departed from this world to go to heaven.&mdash;In the
same city, St. Pudens, senator, father of the virgin
just mentioned, who, being clothed with Christ in
baptism by the apostles, preserved unspotted the
robe of innocence until he received the crown of
life.&mdash;Also, at Rome, on the Appian road, the birthday of the Saints Calocerus and Parthenius,eunuchs.
The former was chamberlain to the wife of the emperor Decius, and the latter chief officer in another
department. For refusing to offer sacrifice to idols,
they were put to death.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the martyr
St. Philoterus, son of the proconsul Pacian, who
after much suffering under the emperor Diocletian,
received the crown of martyrdom.&mdash;In the same city
six holy virgins and martyrs. The principal one,
named Cyriaca, having freely reproved Maximian
for his impiety, was most severely scourged and lacerated, and then consumed with fire.&mdash;At Canterbury, St. Dunstan, bishop.&mdash;In Bretagne, St. Ives,
priest and confessor, who, for the love of Christ,
defended the interests of orphans, widows, and the
poor.


