---
layout: martyrs
title: June 16
day: 16
month: June
---
AT Besancon, in France, the holy martyrs Ferreol,
priest, and Ferrution, deacon, who were sent by
the blessed bishop Irenaeus to preach the word of
God, and after being exposed to various torments
under the judge Claudius, were put to the sword.&mdash;
At Tarsus, in Cilicia, in the reign of the emperor
Diocletian, the holy martyrs Quiricus, and Julitta,
his mother. Quiricus, a child of three years, seeing
his mother cruelly scourged in the presence of the
governor Alexander, and crying bitterly, was killed
by being dashed against the steps of the tribunal.
Julitta, after being subjected to severe stripes and
grievous torments, closed the career of her martyrdom by decapitation.&mdash;At Mayence, the passion of
the Saints Aurens, and Justina, his sister, and other
martyrs, who, being at Mass in the church, were massacred by the Huns then devastating Germany.&mdash;At
Amathonte, in Cyprus, St. Tychon, a bishop in the
time of Theodosius the Younger.&mdash;At Lyons, the
demise of blessed Aurelian, bishop of Arles.&mdash;At
Nantes, in Brittany, St. Similian, bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Meissen, in Germany, St. Benno, bishop.
&mdash;In the village of La Louvesc, formerly of the diocese of Vienne in Dauphiny, the decease of St. John
Francis Regis, confessor, of the Society of Jesus,
distinguished by his zeal for the salvation of souls,
and by his patience. He was placed on the list of 
Saints by Clement XII.&mdash;In Brabant, St. Lutgard,
virgin.

