---
layout: martyrs
title: June 19
day: 19
month: June
---
AT Florence, St. Juliana Falconieri, virgin, foundress of the Sisters of the Order of the Servants
of the Blessed Virgin Mary, who was placed among
the holy virgins by the Sovereign Pontitf, Clement
XII.&mdash;At Milan, the holy martyrs Gervasius and
Protasius, brothers. The former, by order of the
judge Astasius, was so long scourged with leaded
whips, that he expired. The latter, after being
scourged with rods, was beheaded. Through divine
revelation their bodies were found by St. Ambrose.
They were partly covered with blood, and as free
from corruption as if they had been put to death
that very day. When the translation took place, a
blind man recovered his sight by touching their
relics, and many persons possessed by demons were
delivered.&mdash;At Ravenna, St. Ursicinus, martyr, who
remained firm through many torments in the confession of the Lord, and consummated his martyrdom
by capital punishment, under the judge Paulinus.&mdash;
At Sozopolis, under the governor Domitian, during
the persecution of Trajan, St. Zosimus, martyr, who
suffered bitter tortures, was beheaded, and thus triumphantly went to heaven.&mdash;At Arezzo, in Tuscany,
the holy martyrs Gaudentius, bishop, and Culmatius,
deacon, who were murdered by the furious Gentiles,
during the reign of Valentinian.&mdash;The same day, St.
Boniface, martyr, a disciple of blessed Romuald,
who was sent by the Roman Pontiif to preach the
Gospel in Russia. Having passed through fire uninjured, and baptized the king and his people, he was
killed by the enraged brother of the king, and thus
gained the palm of martyrdom which he ardently
desired.&mdash;At Ravenna, St. Romuald, anchoret, founder of the monks of Camaldoli, who restored and
greatly extended monastic discipline, which was
much relaxed in Italy. He is also mentioned on the
7th of February.

