---
layout: martyrs
title: July 09
day: 09
month: July
---
AT Rome, in the place called the Dropever-falling,
the birthday of St. Zeno, and ten thousand two
hundred and three other martyr.&mdash;At Gortyna, in
Crete, in the persecution of Decius, under the governor Lucius, St. Cyril, a bishop, who was thrown
into the flames without being injured, though his
bonds were burnt. The judge, struck with awe at
so great a miracle, set him at liberty, but as the
saint began again immediately to preach the faith of
Christ with zeal, he was beheaded.&mdash;In the town of
Thora, on lake Velino, in Italy, the martyrdom of
the Saints Anatolia and Audax, under the emperor
Decius. Anatolia, a virgin consecrated to Christ,
cured, through the whole province of Picenum, (now Ancona)
many persons laboring under various infirmities,
and made them believe in Christ. By order of the
judge Fustinian, she was condemned to various
kinds of punishments. She was cured of the sting
of a serpent to which she had been exposed; a miracle which converted Audax to the faith. Finally
she was transpierced with a sword, whilst her
hands were extended in prayer. Audax was committed to prison, and being without delay sentenced
to capital punishment, obtained the crown of a martyr.&mdash;At Alexandria, the holy martyrs Patermuthius, Copres, and Alexander, who were put to death
under Julian the Apostate.&mdash;At Brie], in Holland,
the martyrdom of the nineteen martyrs of Gorcum.
For vindicating the authority of the Roman Church.
and the real presence of Christ in the Eucharist.
they endured various ignominies and torments from
the Calvinist heretics, and ended their suffering by
being put to death. In the year 1867, Pius IX.
placed them among the holy martyrs.&mdash;At Martula,
St. Brixius, bishop. Under the judge Marcian, after
having suffered much for the confession of our Lord,
and converted to Christ a great multitude of people,
he rested in peace.&mdash;At Citta-di-Castello, St. Veronica Giuliani, a Capuchin nun, abbess of the monastery of that town. Born at Mercatelli, in the diocese of Urania, she became illustrious by her great
love for sulfering and other virtues, and by her heavenly gifts. She was inscribed among holy virgins
by pope Gregory XVI.

