---
layout: martyrs
title: July 06
day: 06
month: July
---
THE Octave of the holy apostles Peter and Paul.&mdash;In Judea, the holy prophet Isaias. In the reign
of king Manasses he was put to death by being sawed
in two and was buried beneath the oak Rogel, near a
running stream.&mdash;At Rome, the birthday of St.
Tranquillinus, martyr, father of the Saints Mark
and Marcellian, who were converted to Christ by the
preaching of the martyr St. Sebastian. Baptized
by the blessed priest Polycarp, he was ordained
priest by pope St. Caius. He was arrested while
praying at the tomb of blessed Paul on the Octave
of the Apostles, and stoned to death by the Pagans,
and thus consummated his martyrdom.&mdash;At Fiesoli,
in Tuscany, St. Romulus, bishop and martyr, disciple of the blessed apostle Peter, who commissioned
him to preach the Gospel. After announcing Christ
in many parts of Italy, he returned to Fiesoli, and
was crowned with martyrdom with other Christians
in the reign of Domitian.&mdash;In Campania, St. Dominica, virgin and martyr, in the time of the emperor
Diocletian. For having destroyed idols, she was
condemned to the beasts, but being uninjured by
them, she was beheaded and departed for heaven.
Her body is kept with great veneration at Tropea,
in Calabria.&mdash;The same day, St. Lucia, martyr, a
native of Campania. Being arrested and severely
tortured by the lieutenant-governor Rictiovarus, she
converted him to Christ. To them were added Antoninus, Severinus, Diodorus, Dion, and seventeen
others, who shared their sufferings and their crowns.
&mdash;In the vicinity of Treves, St. Goar, priest and
confessor.


