---
layout: martyrs
title: July 05
day: 05
month: July
---
AT Cremona, in Insubria, St. Anthony Mary Zaccaria, confessor, founder of the Barnabites and
the Angelic Virgins. Distinguished for all the virtues and for miracles, he was placed among the
Saints by Leo XIII. His body is venerated in the
church of St. Barnabas, at Milan.&mdash;At Rome, St.
Zoe, martyr, wife of the blessed martyr Nicostratus.
Whilst praying at the tomb of the apostle St. Peter,
during the time of Diocletian, she was seized by the
persecutors, and cast into a dark dungeon; then being suspended on a tree by her neck and hair, and
suffocated by a loathsome smoke, she yielded up her
soul in the confession of the Lord.&mdash;In Syria, the
birthday of St. Domitius, martyr, who by his miracles confers many favors on the people of that
country.&mdash;At Cyrene, in Lybia, St. Cyrilla, a martyr,
in the persecution of Diocletian. For a long while
she held on her hand burning coals with incense, lest
by shaking off the coals she should seem to offer incense to the idols. She was afterwards cruelly
scourged, and went to her spouse adorned with her
own blood.&mdash;At Jerusalem, St. Athanasius, a deacon, who was apprehended by the heretics for defending the Council of Chalcedon, and after experiencing all kinds of torments, was put to the sword.
&mdash;In Sicily, the holy martyrs Agatho and Triphina.&mdash;
At Tomis, in Scythia, the holy martyrs Marinus,
Theodotus, and Sedopha.&mdash;At Treves, St. Numerian,
bishop and confessor.&mdash;St. Michael of the Saints,
whose death is mentioned on the 10th of April.&mdash;At
San Severino, in the March of Ancona, St. Philomena, virgin.

