---
layout: martyrs
title: July 17
day: 17
month: July
---
AT Rome, St. Alexius, confessor, son of the senator Euphemian. Leaving his spouse untouched
the night of his marriage, he withdrew from his
house, and after a long pilgrimage returned to
Rome, where he was for seventeen years harbored
in his father’s house as an unknown beggar, thus
deluding the world by a new device. But after his
death, becoming known through a voice heard in
the churches of the city, and by his own writing, he
was, under the Sovereign Pontiff, Innocent I., translated to the church of St. Boniface, where he wrought
many miracles.&mdash;At Carthage, the birthday of the
holy Scillitan martyrs Speratus, Narzales, Cythinus,
Veturius, Felix, Acyllinus, Laetantius, Januaria,
Generosa, Vestina, Donata, and Secunda. By order
of the prefect Saturninus, after their first confession of the faith, they were sent to prison, nailed to
pieces of wood, and finally beheaded. The relics of
Speratus, with the bones of blessed Cyprian and the
head of the martyr St. Pantaleon, were carried from
Africa into France, and religiously placed in the
basilica of St. John the Baptist at Lyons.&mdash;At
Amastris, in Paphlagonia, St. Hyacinth, martyr,
who died in prison after much sulfering, under the
prefect Castritius.&mdash;At Tivoli, St. Generosus, martyr.&mdash;At Constantinople, St. Theodota, martyr, under the Iconoclast Leo.&mdash;At Rome, the demise of
pope St. Leo IV.&mdash;At Pavia, St. Ennodius, bishop
and confessor.&mdash;At Auxerre, St. Theodosius, bishop.
&mdash;At Milan, the virgin St. Marcellina, sister of the
blessed bishop Ambrose, who received the religious
veil from pope Liberius in the basilica of St. Peter
at Rome. Her sanctity is attested by St. Ambrose
in his writings.&mdash;At Venice, the translation of St.
Marina, virgin.

