---
layout: martyrs
title: July 19
day: 19
month: July
---
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL, confessor, who slept in
the Lord on the 27th of September. Leo XIII.
declared him heavenly patron before the throne of
God of all charitable organizations throughout the
Catholic world owing in any manner their origin to
him.&mdash;The same day, the birthday of St. Epaphras,
whom the apostle St. Paul calls his fellow-prisoner.
By the same apostle he was consecrated bishop of
Colossae, where becoming renowned for his virtues,
he received the palm of martyrdom for defending
courageously the flock committed to his charge. His
body lies at Rome in the basilica of St. Mary the
Greater.&mdash;At Seville, in Spain, the martyrdom of
the holy virgins Justa and Rufina. Arrested by the
governor Diogenian, they were stretched on the rack
and lacerated with iron claws, then imprisoned, and
subjected to starvation and various tortures. Lastly
Justa breathed her last in prison, and Rufina had
her neck broken while confessing Christ.&mdash;At Cordova, St. Aurea, virgin, who repented of a fault she
had committed, and in a second combat overcame
the enemy by the shedding of her blood.&mdash;At Treves,
St. Martin, bishop and martyr.&mdash;At Rome, pope St.
Symmachus, who for a long time had much to bear
from a faction of schismatics. At last, distinguished by holiness, he went to God.&mdash;At Verona,
St. Felix, bishop.&mdash;At Scete, a mountain in Egypt,
St. Arsenius, a deacon of the Roman church. In
the time of Theodosius, he retired into a wilderness,
where, endowed with every virtue and shedding continual tears, he yielded his soul to God.&mdash;In Cappadocia, the holy virgin Marcina, sister of St. Basil
the Great and St. Gregory of Nyssa.
