---
layout: martyrs
title: August 05
day: 05
month: August
---
AT Rome, on Mount Esquiline, the dedication of
the church of St. Mary of the Snows.&mdash;Also at
Rome, during the persecution of Diocletian, the
martyrdom of twenty-three holy martyrs, who were
beheaded on the Salarian road, and buried at the
foot of Cucumer hill.&mdash;At Augsburg, the birthday
of St. Afra, martyr. After being converted from
Paganism by the instructions of bishop St. Narcissus, and being baptized with all her household, she
was delivered to the flames for the confession of
Christ.&mdash;At Ascoli, in the Marches, St. Emygdius,
bishop and martyr, who was consecrated bishop by
pope St. Marcellus, and sent thither to preach the
Gospel. He received the crown of martyrdom for
the confession of Christ, under the emperor Diocletian.&mdash;At Antioch, St. Eusignius, a soldier, who
at the age of one hundred and ten years, because
he. reproached Julian the Apostate for forsaking
the faith of Constantine the Great, under whom he
had served, and for having degenerated from his
ancestors' piety, was decapitated by his command.
&mdash;Also, the holy martyrs Cantidius, Cantidian, and
Sobel, Egyptians.&mdash;At Chalons, in France, St.
Memmius, a Roman citizen, who, being consecrated
bishop of that city by St. Peter, brought to the
truth of the Gospel the people committed to his
care.&mdash;At Autun, blessed Cassian, bishop.&mdash;At
Teano, St. Paris, bishop.&mdash;In England, St. Oswald,
king, whose life is related by Venerable Bede.&mdash;
The same day, St. Nonna, mother of blessed Gregory
Nazianzen.

