---
layout: martyrs
title: August 07
day: 07
month: August
---
AT Naples, in Campania, St. Cajetan of Tiene,
confessor, founder of the Theatines, who, through
singular confidence in God, made his disciples
practise the primitive mode of life of the Apostles.
Being renowned for miracles, he was ranked among
the saints by Clement X.&mdash;At Arezzo, in Tuscany,
the birthday of St. Donatus, bishop and martyr, who
among other miraculous deeds, made whole again
by his prayers (as is related by the blessed pope
Gregory), a sacred chalice which had been broken
by Pagans. Being apprehended by the imperial
officer Quadratian, in the persecution of Julian the
Apostate, and refusing to sacrifice to idols, he was
struck with the sword, and thus consummated his
martyrdom. With him suffered also the blessed
monk Hilarinus, whose feast is celebrated on the
16th of July, when his body was taken to Ostia.&mdash;At
Rome, the holy martyrs Peter and Julian, with
eighteen others.&mdash;At Milan, St. Faustus, a soldier,
who obtained the palm of martyrdom after many
combats, in the time of Aurelius Commodus.&mdash;At
Como, the passion of the holy martyrs Carpophorus,
Exanthus, Cassius, Severinus, Secundus and Licinius, who were beheaded for the confession of Christ.
&mdash;At Nisibis, in Mesopotamia, St.Dometius, a Persian
monk, who was stoned to death with two of his
disciples, under Julian the Apostate.&mdash;At Rouen,
the holy: bishop St. Victricius. Whilst he was yet a
soldier under Julian, he threw away his military
belt for Christ, and after being subjected by the tribune to many torments, was condemned to capital
punishment. But the executioner who had been
sent to put him to death being struck blind, and the
confessor's chains being loosened, he made his escape. Afterwards being made bishop, by preaching
the word of God, he brought to the faith of Christ
the barbarous people of Belgic Gaul, and finally died
a confessor in peace.&mdash;At Chalons, in France, St.
Donation, bishop.&mdash;At Messina, in Sicily, St. Albert,
confessor, of the Order of Carmelites, renowned for
miracles.

