---
layout: martyrs
title: August 16
day: 16
month: August
---
ST JOACHIM, father of the most blessed Virgin
Mary, whose birthday is the 20th of March.&mdash;At
Rome, St. Titus, deacon, who, when the city was
taken by the Goths, was put to death by a barbarous
tribune, whilst distributing money to the poor.&mdash;At
Nicaea, in Bithynia, St. Diomedes, physician, who
underwent martyrdom for the faith of Christ by being beheaded, during the persecution of Diocletian.
&mdash;Also, thirty-three holy martyrs.&mdash;At Ferentino, in
Campania, St. Ambrose, centurion. In the persecution of Diocletian, he was subjected to different
kinds of tortures, and finally passing through fire
without injury, was cast into the water, and thus
reached the place of eternal rest.&mdash;At Milan, the
demise of St. Simplician, bishop, renowned by the
testimony given of him by St. Ambrose and St.
Augustine.&mdash;At Auxerre, St. Eleutherius, bishop.&mdash;
At Nicomedia, St. Arsacius, confessor. Under the
persecutor Licinius, he left the military service, and
leading a solitary life, became so famous for working miracles, that we read of his expelling the
demons and killing a huge dragon by his prayers.
Finally he foretold the destruction of the city, and
gave up his soul to God in prayer.&mdash;In France, near
Montpelier, the demise of blessed Roch, confessor,
who by the sign of the cross, delivered many cities
of Italy from an epidemic. His body was afterwards transferred to Venice, and deposited with
the greatest honors in the church dedicated under
his invocation.&mdash;At Rome, St. Serena, who had been
the wife of the emperor Diocletian.

