---
layout: martyrs
title: August 17
day: 17
month: August
---
THE Octave of St. Lawrence, martyr.&mdash;At Cracow, 
in Poland, St. Hyacinth, confessor, of the Order of
Preachers, who slept in the Lord on the 16th of this
month.&mdash;At Carthage, in Africa, the holy martyrs Liberatus, abbot, Boniface, deacon, Servus and Rusticus, subdeacons, Rogatus and Septimus, monks, and
Maximus, a young child. In the persecution of the
Vandals, under king Hunneric, they were subjected
to various unheard-of torments for the confession of
the Catholic faith and the defense of one baptism.
Finally, being nailed to the wood wherewith they
were to be burned, as the fire was always put out
miraculously whenever kindled, they were struck
with iron bars by order of the tyrant until their
brains were da.shed out. Thus they terminated the
glorious series of their combats, and were crowned
by our Lord.&mdash;At Caesarea, in Cappadocia, the birthday of St. Mamas, martyr, who, from childhood to
old age, endured a long martyrdom, and at length
ended it happily in the reign of Aurelian, under the
governor Alexander. He ha.s been highly praised by
the holy fathers Basil and Gregory Nazianzen.&mdash;In
Achaia, St. Myron, priest and martyr, who was beheaded at Cyzicum, after undergoing many torments,
in the time of the emperor Decius and the governor
Antipater.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the holy martyrs Straton, Philip and Eutychian, who were condemned to
the beasts, but being uninjured by them, ended their
martyrdom by fire.&mdash;At fferamo, St. Anastasius,
bishop and confessor.&mdash;At Ptolemais, in Palestine, 
the holy martyrs Paul, and his sister Juliana, who
suffered under Valerian.



