---
layout: martyrs
title: August 22
day: 22
month: August
---
THE Octave of the Assumption of the Blessed
Virgin Mary.&mdash;At Rome, on the Ostian road,
the birthday of the holy martyr Timothy. After he
had been arrested by Tarquinius, prefect of the
city, and kept for a long time in prison, as he refused to sacrifice to the idols, he was scourged three
times, subjected to the most severe torments, and
finally beheaded.&mdash;At Porto, St. Hippolytus, bishop,
most renowned for learning. Having gloriously
confessed the faith, in the time of the emperor Alexander, he was bound hand and foot, precipitated
into a deep ditch filled with water, and thus received
the palm of martyrdom. His body was buried by
the Christians at that place.&mdash;At Autun, St. Symphorian, a martyr, in the time of the emperor Aurelian. Refusing to offer sacrifice to the idols, he was
first scourged, then confined in prison, and finally
endedhis martyrdom by being beheaded.&mdash;At Rome.
St. Antoninus, martyr, who, openly declaring himself a Christian, was condemned to capital punishment by the judge Vitellius, and buried on the Aurelian road.&mdash;-Also, at Porto, the holy martyrs Martial,
Saturninus, Epictetus, Maprilis, and Felix, with
their companions.&mdash;At Nicomedia, the Saints Agathonicus, Zoticus, and their fellow-martyrs, under the
emperor Maximian and the governor Eutholomius.&mdash;At Tarsus, the Saints Athanasius, bishop and martyr, Anthusa, a noble woman whom he had baptized,
and two of her slaves, who suffered under Valerian.
&mdash;At Rheims, the holy martyr Maurus and his companions.&mdash;In Spain, the saintly martyrs Fabrician
and Philibert.&mdash;At Pavia, St. Gunifort, martyr.

