AT Lyons, in France, St. Francis of Sales, bishop of Geneva, 
confessor and Doctor of the Church, who is mentioned on the 28th of 
December.&mdash;At Rome, on the Nomentan road, the birthday of the 
holy martyrs Papius and Maurus, soldiers under the emperor 
Diocletian. At their first confession of Christ their mouths were 
bruised with stones and they were thrown into prison by order of 
Laodicius, prefect of the city. Afterwards they were beaten with 
rods and with leaded whips until they expired.&mdash;At Perugia, 
in the time of Marcus Aurelius, St. Constantius, bishop and martyr, 
who together with his companions, received the crown of martyrdom 
for the defense of the faith.&mdash;At Edessa, in Syria, the holy 
martyrs Sarbelius and his sister Barbea, who were baptized by the 
blessed bishop Barsimaeus, and crowned with martyrdom in the 
persecution of Trajan, under the governor Lysias.&mdash; In the 
territory of Troyes, St. Sabinian, martyr, who was beheaded for the 
faith of Christ by the command of the emperor Aurelian.&mdash;At 
Milan, St. Aquilinus, priest, who was crowned with martyrdom by 
having his throat pierced with a sword by the Arians.&mdash;At 
Treves, the demise of the blessed bishop Valerius, disciple of 
the apostle St. Peter.&mdash;At Bourges, St. Sulpicius Severus, 
bishop, distinguished by his virtues and erudition.  
